# Car Price Prediction 
This is a regression problem and the aim of this project is to predict the car price based on some parameters. In this project I have used vehicle dataset available in kaggle. This dataset consists of 9 total features, they are Car_Name i.e. Name of the cars, Year i.e. Year of the car when it was bought, Selling_Price i.e. Price at which the car is being sold, Present_Price i.e. the current price of the car, Kms_Driven i.e. Number of kilometers the car is driven, Fuel_Type i.e. Fuel type of car (Petrol/Diesel/CNG), Seller_Type i.e. Tells if a seller is Individual or Dealer, Transmission i.e. Gear Transmission of the car (Automatic/Manual), Owner i.e. Number of previous owner of car.
I started with analysing some aspects of this data such as looking at unique values of categorical features and correlation among the features. Also features that were not useful for prediction were dropped. I've also used get_dummies() method of pandas for data manipulation which is helpful in converting categorical data into dummy or indicator variable. Then Dependent and Independent features were extracted and was stored separately into X and y variables. 
Then I have computed thhe importance of each features i.e. feature importance which is a technique that assigns a score of input features based on their importance to predict the output.
Finally, I splitted the data into train and test set using train_test_split methd of sklearn.model_selection, then applying RandomForestRegressor to my model and also I've used RandomizedSearchCV for hyperparameter tuning. The evaluation metrics used for model evaluation was r2_score and my model predicted the r2_score of 0.935 which is pretty good for regression problem.
