# Heart Disease Prediction
This is a classification problem which aims at classifying whether a person has heart Disease or not. The dataset that I've used for the predicton of heart diseases is available in Kaggle and it consists of 14 total features. The features are age i.e. age in years, sex i.e. (1=male, 0=female), cp i.e. chest pain type, trestbps i.e. resting blood pressure in mm Hg on admission to hospital, chol i.e. serum cholestrol in mg/dl, fbs i.e. fasting blood sugar & gt; 120 mg/dl (1=true, 0=false), restecg i.e. resting electrocardiographic results, thalach i.e. maximum heart rate achieved, exang i.e. exercise induced angina (1=yes, 0=no), old peak i.e. ST depression induced by exercise relative to rest. This dataset didn't have any null values so I started with visualizing dataset to analyze certain thing such as the ratio of male and female, count of person of different age and also correlation among the features. Next thing was to check for outliers in numerical features trestbps, thalach, chol. Outliers were found in these features and also these features follow gaussian distribution so outliers were removed using 3rd standard deviation. After all these things dependent and independent features were extracted and was stored separately into X and Y variables and then I've converted these features into numpy array. Scaling was performed using StandardScaler method of sklearn.preprocessing. Finally, logistic regression and support vector classifier was applied to our model respectively and svc was found to be better performing algoritm with an accuracy of 88.78%. The evaluation metrics used were accuracy_score, classification_report and confusion_matrix.
