# Credit Card Fraud Detection
The main aim of this project is to identify credit card frauds using machine learning algorithms. In this project the dataste used is available in kaggle and it contains 31 features in total. 
The features present are Time i.e. number of seconds elapsed between current transaction and the first transaction in the dataset, V1-V28 i.e. result of PCA Dimensionality reduction to protect user identities and sensitive features, Amount i.e. the transaction amount and Class i.e. 1 for fraudulent transaction, 0 otherwise.
This dataset contains approx 284315 real transactions while 492 fraudulent transactions. As can be seen, this dataset is highly imbalanced and this issue can be resolved using SMOTE technique i.e. Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique which oversamples the minority class.
I have tried applying algorithm first without handling imbalanced data and then after handling imbalanced data. Also the Amount column was normalized before training using sklearn.preprocessing method StandardScaler. For training, I have used RandomForestClassifier algorithm that produced a model accuracy of approx 99% but the recall of the minority class was pretty low. Therefore, this model was more biased towards majority class, So this model wasn't the best one. After handling imbalanced dataset and then applying the same RandomForestClassifier, the accuracy was almost the same as the previous one but recall of minority class has increased than the previous model. Therefore, this model was found to be the best for this credit card fraud detection.
